---
layout: post
title: On summer (and what's in, and  what's out)
excerpt: Buckle up, folks.

---

Summer is almost here! I personally can't believe that we're less than a month away from Memorial Day weekend. The spring that we got feels VERY short-lived compared to the brutal winter we had on the East Coast - I swear we were seeing snowcrete up until April in some places.

But ready or not, summer is just around the corner, and so is the age-old (probably not *that* age-old) tradition of figuring out what's in and what's out this summer. Every May or so, "influencers" flock to social media to tell you what's hot and what's not, and you must listen! Or so they say. 

That's why on this final day of April, I'm coming to you with a hard pivot from yesterday's blog into a slightly different topic. Unlike yesterday's musings about suburbs where there *was* room for interpretation and you had the ability to disagree, what I am about to state below is all cold, hard truth. These **are** what'll be in and out this summer. We're ahead of the curve, and when you're ahead of the May curve, you can make the rules here.

But unlike typical formats with just ins and outs, I've decided to go for more of a longitudinal study approach. So, we'll be exploring 4 groups of 5 instead of 2 groups of 10. Those groups are:

1. Things that are in and will continue to be in;

2. Things that **were** in but are now out;

3. Things that were not in but will be, and;

4. Things that are not and will not be in.

I'll do my best at a summary table at the end, just so you can screenshot it and set it as your background. ;) 

Without further ado...

## Things that are in now, in this summer

### 1. Dance pop

2026 is the new 2006! Give me dance pop. Give me electro pop. Give me *Stateside + Zara Larsson*! 

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/lIxQe1R5hs0?si=hEtVLFZySSiBIvO3" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen></iframe>

It's fun. It's recession pop. It's glorious. The wave of dance pop and electro pop is going to crest this summer, I'm calling it, and it'll be long-awaited. Think back to 2009. Think about *Paparazzi* and *Poker Face* and *Just Dance*! We're SO in the moment for dance pop. It's back and it's going to continue to be back in a big way. Same with...

### 2. Frozen yogurt

YES!!!

My coworkers and I were remarking on the nostalgia of frozen yogurt this week and about the shared experiences of our various neighborhood froyo shops. The plastic chairs, pastel colors, neon spoons, and-most importantly-the reckless abandon at how much yogurt and how many toppings you can add to a bowl before you're paying $40 for 3 pounds of sugar? YES!!! And sure it's healthy for you, it's got probiotics!

Realistically, though, frozen yogurt's been coming back for a few months now. Why? Well, it's a recession indicator. It's a cheap indulgence that you can get after a bad day for $15 and it makes you feel better. And realistically, it's better for you than drinking anyway. 

### 3. Colorful things

I adore how Gen Z (which I am a proud, card-carrying member of) is turning back to color. Millennials may have ruined avocadoes, diamonds, and sandwich shops, but the worst thing they did was ruin color palettes. Why is my floor millennial gray? Why are all the cars on the road white and black and silver? 

Because a whole generation of people are boring!

Color is back. Wear something colorful. Drive an orange car. Maximalize the hell out of your living space. Cover every inch of your wall in patterns, if you want. We're done living in sanatoriums, and we've never been more back.

### 4. Exploring your city

Okay...this is probably also (a) a recession indicator and (b) a product of some...disturbance going on that's made everything untenably expensive. But people are beginning to get out there and explore their city and love it more than I remember them doing. This could just be a me thing, but I think people are doing more and reaching out more in ways to the communities around them. It's pretty cool, but could've happened under better circumstances probably. 

### 5. Grilling

Everyone's gonna be on the grill this summer, I bet. This is my biggest spitball so far, but I think people are gonna be learning new stuff this summer in almost a pandemic-type way, and grilling's gonna be something people lean into.

It's fun, it feeds your friends, it's outside, and when it's really hot, you don't have to move that much. And most of the time you don't have to pay attention to the grill. Win!

Grilling's always been in. This summer, even more so-says me.

That's the feel-good category out of the way. Now, things that were, but will not be.

## Things that were in but are going out

### 1. AI slop

It's been terrifyingly close to 4 years since ChatGPT came out in November 2022. We've gone through the cycle at this point. People were intrigued. People were enthralled. People grew tired. Now people are exhausted of it. 

People worldwide are calling slop out for what it is on social media. People are sick of the people who ask AI to do everything for them. People have realized that progress is stagnating to some degree and that we've put AI into things that do not need AI in them one bit (see the [Rawlings Generative AI baseball bat](https://www.rawlings.com/product/RUS5MC.html)). 

Furthermore, AI slop is getting more expensive. AI model providers are cutting token allowances and raising API rates. Sora got shut down for being too costly. So not only is AI annoying, it's now less accessible AND a gimmick people are tired of. 

Good riddance, AI slop.

### 2. Aperol Spritz

I won't elaborate too hard on this one. Except that 1. They're really expensive at bars and 2. While they look really cool and make you look sophisticated and stuff 3. I don't find them to taste like much and I think they're bitter and weird. Aperol Spritz drinkers of the world, wake up. The rest of the drinks menu is calling.

### 3. Euro summer

Unfortunately this is just a casualty of once again, fuel prices. Wonder what truly unavoidable event could have caused this.

### 4. (Basic) house music

So yes, dance pop is in. But basic house is OUT!

Please, please, please, I beg of you. People of the world, PLEASE stop convincing yourselves that the EDM on your TikTok for you page is all that's out there. If I have to hear *No Broke Boys* or *These Days* one more time in public I might rip my ears off my face. 

I don't want to come off as someone who thinks you can't enjoy a song if it has more than a million streams - because I'm not. But it bugs the ever living crap out of me that people go into spaces EDM is played, stand around 90% of the time, and then only get hype when they hear Fisher or John Summit or Fred again (although Fred again is admittedly pretty good). PLEASE just expand your horizons a little!

### 5. Getting REALLY drunk

In this economy???

So my main reasoning for this is twofold. One, you go out late and get really drunk and then going to bed is really unpleasant - room spinning, sweating, all that stuff. And two, you go out late and get really drunk and then you've already ruined the next day. If Phineas and Ferb taught me anything, it's that you get 104 days of summer. So why take those away from yourself just to get really drunk? Don't do that. Have a couple during the day if you really want, as long as you're feeling fine by bedtime. Jeez.

This next section is the one I'm most excited for. What's not in that should be?

## Things that are not in that should be in

### 1. Backwards hats

Backwards hats are such a fun thing to wear. But nobody bothers to wear them anymore. I'm assuming there's a stigma against wearing them after a certain age, because I find myself putting on a hat backwards, frowning at myself in the mirror, and then putting a hat on forwards. People in college knew my love for the backwards hat. I know some people use it to cover up a receding hairline (which I would NOT do). But it's such a whimsical thing for me! No idea why people don't do it more. If more people did, I certainly would. Pledge to wear a backwards hat one day in the next week at [kylenotbrandon@gmail.com](mailto:kylenotbrandon@gmail.com) and I'll wear one in solidarity with you.

### 2. Odd-choice-of-city road trips

Yes, gas prices are high. But load up yourself and 3 other people and go somewhere wacky for the weekend! Love Myrtle Beach like it's Bali. Treat Ocean City like it's Paris. Go have the nicest experiences a small to medium-size city has to offer. You're probably not spending a ton of money, and you're probably having a good time doing so. And can any time really be so bad if you're in good company?

### 3. Napping outside

When is the last time you took a nap outside? Last week? Last month? Year? Never?

If there's a patch of grass around you or maybe a beach, wait for that perfect summer day. Like an 80 and sunny. Drape a towel on the ground. Bring a book, maybe. And just lay there and sleep. Maybe set an alarm and make sure you're in a space appropriate for napping. But this is something I regrettably haven't done in forever. Why? I can't think as to why. But it's pretty nice when you do it right.

### 4. Waking up early

Going back to the Phineas and Ferb thing, summer days - and especially mornings - are SPECIAL. Tranquility, crisp air, and the promise of another day ahead. It rocks. This summer, try getting up early. It's a pretty good life hack in terms of getting to bed on time, too. If you wake up at 7, you'll have a good 12-14 hours of sunlight, so sunset will be welcome as you'll have expended enough energy throughout the day to be rested. I think. Maybe talk to your doctor on that one.

And finally...

### 5. Emo music

I don't know why, but I've been feeling a lot of 2000s emo music recently. There are some real bangers in there, and they're not all sad, which is appreciated. I just think sonically, it's so, SO fun. It's fun to go for a drive with this stuff playing, it really is. It's energetic, it's got unique chord progressions and riffs, and some pretty talented vocalists. Bring it back! Why not!

Finally, things that are out that should (rightfully) probably have no place this summer.

## Things that are out and should STAY out of Summer 2026

### 1. Injuries

Don't get injured this summer. There was one summer when I was a kid where my mom poked me in the ear with a Q-Tip and injured my eardrum and my ear started bleeding. I wasn't allowed in water for the rest of the summer. It sucked.

Across the board, summer is the season of physical activity! Don't get hurt - or if you do, get hurt doing something cool. (Sorry, mom.)

### 2. Spotted lanternflies

I can't deal with another pestilence of those annoying bugs. This is a very East Coast gripe but they're everywhere. When I was a kid we had Japanese beetles EVERYWHERE in our neighborhood, and they were loud and massive, apart from being an invasive and destructive species. So it's that all over again for me!

Except this time I'm not scared. Moreso hopeful this winter was cold and harsh enough to kill them off in numbers. But maybe that's an unrealistic hope.

### 3. Crowds

This is an interesting one for me because the pendulum swings pretty rapidly. How social I am really depends on the day. I can interact with 1-4 other people indefinitely, but crowds are another beast entirely. 

Mainly because people don't know how to act in crowds. People don't stand on the right on escalators. People block the door or try to get in before you get out of an elevator or the Metro (that's a HUGE pet peeve of mine that if I ever do a pet peeves blog WILL be on there). People can't act in airports or on planes. 

This isn't limited to me. I feel like a lot of people have started confronting people who don't know how to act in crowds (not my style) or at the very least, make snide observations (more my style). Either way, maybe bring back spatial awareness this summer?

### 4. The New York Mets

How do you spend so much money and manage to be so bad? You should be relegated to Minor League Baseball.

### 5. Dogs where they should not be

You can argue this could've gone in Category 2. But does your dog really need to sit on the chair and join you at the restaurant table? 

This is something that's become increasingly common, and it's increasingly bewildering to see people do this. You're taking your dog into...Costco? You've bought them a fake service dog vest? Why?

It wouldn't be as big of a problem if dogs as a whole weren't germy and if people cared enough to train their dogs well. (I guess the same could be said for children.) But I fear as a resident in an area full of dogs, most people don't bother to train them well, and a large subset of them are under the impression their dog is well-trained because it knows how to sit. Well, not quite.

And there is the other edge of the sword, which is the, "Well, I can't leave my dog alone because he/she has separation anxiety!" Which could be the result of a lack of training, or the owner seeing their dog as a faultless little angel, I suppose...

You know, I'm just gonna stop here. No good is gonna come from me going further on this. I probably will into full depth about it at some point. But not today, I'm tired.

## The final table

|                   | In now                                                                                     | Out now                                                                                                      |
| ----------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| **Should be in**  | Dance pop<br/>Frozen yogurt<br/>Colorful things<br/>Exploring your city<br/>Grilling       | Backwards hats<br/>Road trips to out-of-fashion cities<br/>Napping outside<br/>Waking up early<br/>Emo music |
| **Should be out** | AI slop<br/>Aperol spritz<br/>Euro summer<br/>(Basic) house music<br/>Getting really drunk | Injuries<br/>Spotted lanternflies<br/>Crowds<br/>The New York Mets<br/>Dogs where they should not be         |

Well, with all that...here's to summer!